
Operationalize a model means balancing time, resources and quality throughout the system (like devops for application projects)

MLOps -> lifecycle management discipline for ML

Some concepts translate from DevOps to MLOps:

- Continuous integration -> multiple teams can work on the same code without conflicts (it's crucial to define a branching strategy. Should merge as much as possible to avoid diverging, even multiple times a day). Automatic tests should be employed.
- Continuous delivery / Continuous deployment: build, test and release code very quickly - code is always production ready. However, they are not the same thing: cont. delivery automates integration and tests but deployment to prod is done manually.
- Continuous training: models' predictive power can lower due to change in data. CT refers to a continuous cycle of monitoring, measuring retraining and serving

---

Differences:

- CI is not only about testing code and components, but also data, data schemas, models
- Devops focuses on a single software package or service, MLops also considers the whole system: the ML training pipeline
- ML also includes the monitoring

---

Technical debt: not pay attention to code quality

ML can be considered the high interest credit card of technical debt. It might be easy to build it, but it's complex to monitor and maintain.

ML systems can easily accumulate technical debt, due to:
- multi functional teams
- experimental nature
- testing is more complex than other systems
- deployment is more complex
- concept drift and model decay pose challenges

