
We need a way to orchestrate the different steps of a ML workflow -> ML pipelines

### Vertex AI Pipelines

Vertex AI Pipelines is a managed service that helps you to automate, monitor, and govern your ML systems by orchestrating your ML workflow in a serverless manner and storing your workflow’s artifacts using Vertex ML Metadata. 

`Vertex AI Pipelines can run pipelines built using the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK v1.8.9 or higher or TensorFlow Extended v0.30.0 or higher.`

### Kubeflow Pipelines

Kubeflow is an open source Kubernetes framework for developing and running portable ML workloads.

Kubeflow Pipelines is a service that lets you compose, orchestrate and automate ML systems.

Google Cloud services can be used to execute the steps.

For instance, CloudSQL can serve as the ML Metadata store.

The components are not limited to executing TFX related services, but also Dataproc, AutoML


### TFX to leverage pre-built components for common steps

### When to use which pipeline

If Tensorflow is used (especially if the workflow manages terabytes of structured data or text data), it's better to go with TFX. It uses Apache Beam under the hood (what they say is a bit difficult from what they say in the videos, according to which tfx can be orchestrated also with kubeflow)

Kubeflow makes it more easier to configure, monitor and maintain, so it might be preferable.

Vertex AI pipeline is a better choice as it includes built-in support for common ML operations and tracks ML-specific metadata and lineage.

